---
layout: default
title: Program
nav: true
---

# 2018 notes

- Monday June-11 to Thursday June-14
- website http://bit.ly/ubcwg18
- repository https://github.com/WestGrid/ubcSummerSchool2018.git
- announcement and registration opening around May-01
  - in the announcement and the registration page mention the remote broadcast
  - have "interested" checkboxes for individual courses

## Courses (tentative program)

- <sup>fixed</sup> means the instructor is available only on this date/time (cannot be moved)

[roman]: {{ site.baseurl }}/roman.html
[phillip]: {{ site.baseurl }}/phillip.html
[wolfgang]: {{ site.baseurl }}/wolfgang.html
[juan]: {{ site.baseurl }}/juan.html
[alex1]: {{ site.baseurl }}/alex1.html
[alex2]: {{ site.baseurl }}/alex2.html
[alex3]: {{ site.baseurl }}/alex3.html
[dmitri]: {{ site.baseurl }}/dmitri.html
[mathworks]: {{ site.baseurl }}/mathworks.html
[azure]: {{ site.baseurl }}/azure.html
[kim]: {{ site.baseurl }}/kim.html

| date and time | GEOG 200 (100 seats) | GEOG 101 (60 seats) | GEOG 147 (60 seats) is an overflow room |
| ------------- | --------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| Mon **11th** morning | [*Introduction to HPC*][roman] by Roman Baranowski | | |
| Mon **11th** afternoon | [*Introduction to HPC*][roman] by Roman Baranowski (cont.) | [*Databases*][wolfgang] by Wolfgang Richter | |
| Tue **12th** morning | [*Parallel programming in Chapel*][alex1] by Alex Razoumov | [*Introduction to GPU programming with CUDA*][juan] by Juan Zuniga | [*Next Generation Sequencing on Cedar*][phillip] by Phillip Richmond <sup>fixed</sup> |
| Tue **12th** afternoon | [*Parallel programming in Chapel*][alex1] by Alex Razoumov (cont.) | [*Introduction to GPU programming with CUDA*][juan] by Juan Zuniga (cont.) | |
| Wed **13th** morning | [*Basics of scientific visualization with ParaView*][alex2] by Alex Razoumov | [*MATLAB*][mathworks] by Mathworks <sup>fixed</sup> | [*Optimizing Python functions in C++*][dmitri] by Dmitri Rozmanov |
| Wed **13th** afternoon | [*Large-scale remote visualization with ParaView*][alex3] by Alex Razoumov | [*MATLAB*][mathworks] by Mathworks (cont.) <sup>fixed</sup> | [*HPC and deep learning labs in Microsoft Azure Cloud*][azure] <sup>fixed</sup> |
| Thu **14th** morning | *Parallelization in Python 3 and large datasets* by Phil Austin <sup>fixed</sup> | *CC cloud* by Venkat Mahadevan | |
| Thu **14th** afternoon | *Amazon AWS* | [*Bioinfo and data graphics in R for microbiologists*][kim] by Kim Dill-McFarland <sup>fixed</sup> | |
{:.mbtablestyle}

| Thu **14th** 4pm-5pm | open panel on post-PhD career options |
{:.mbtablestyle}

&nbsp;

**Notes**:
- Apr-06 Martin Krzywinski is still unsure, will try to answer soon (but not the design course)
- Matt McInnis from IBM is unreachable; Roman is working with other IBM contacts
- meeting with Amazon (AWS) on Thursday, they really want to participate in our summer school
- perhaps, one 3-hr session on both Amazon AWS and Microsoft Azure
- CC cloud: Brent will provide materials, Venkat will teach
- so far no one to teach Julia language

## Next face-to-face Apr-17 @2pm

- recording / broadcasting (including to the overflow room) with Garth
- Cedar reservations: how many nodes? GPU nodes? figure out the grid for the week
- guest accounts

## Action items

**Garth:**
* confirm with Todd: planning to be in Vancouver for the entire summer school (flying back on Thursday
  night)
* now looking into either using a splitter to get the video signal, or recording with a camera (OBS is no
  longer an option)
* will talk to his contacts in AV support at UBC Vancouver about borrowing the equipment
* will make sure there is a proper LAN connection (not relying on wireless for broadcast)

**Alex:**
* ONGOING work with Mathworks
  - we are really interested in using the TAH UBC license
  - work with the instructors: need intro, need to show running/scaling on Cedar, make sure everyone can
    access MATLAB

**Jamie:**
* Martin Krzywinski has to decide until the end of March
* Apr-06 ECOSCOPE confirmed date/time; Jamie asked for syllabus details by the end of the next week (Apr-13)
* CC bioinformatics team: volunteers to teach Galaxy/GenAP?

**Roman:**
* Apr-03 Gino DiLabio: interested, but mostly likely will travel, will let us know in a couple of days
* Apr-03 waiting to hear from Ian Allison (PIMS) on someone from his team to teach Jupyter/Python; Ian
  himself will be in Europe; could be Patrick Walls?
* Mar-20 contacting people about participating in the career panel (Brent, finance, etc)

## What we would like to do differently this year

1. have as much participation from analysts and the UBC ARC staff (teaching the courses)
1. have more stringent rules for faculty-delivered courses: must have hands-ons, must use our national
   systems, must send us a syllabus before a deadline; the same should apply to any GSC presentations so
   that they donâ€™t end up promoting their own clusters
1. find a way to clearly recognize and promote faculty who support the schools / present sessions
1. have a 1h panel on career options after PhD (have HPC background, now what?), bring in people from
   different domains, put this into the program, re-use one of the lecture halls off-schedule, advertsie
   as a networking event, maybe some instructors will want to participate as well
